docs: consul-vault kubernetes integration docs (#11766)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/docs/k8s/installation/vault/gossip.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Storing Gossip Encryption Key in Vault
description: >-
  Configuring the Consul Helm chart to use gossip encryption key stored in Vault.
---

# Storing Gossip Encryption Key in Vault

To use a gossip encryption key stored in Vault we need the following:

1. Generate and store an encryption key in Vault.
1. Create policies that will allow Consul client and server to access that key.
1. Create a Kubernetes auth roles that link policies from step 2 to Kubernetes service accounts of the Consul servers and clients.

## Configuring Vault

First, generate and store the gossip key in Vault:

```shell-session
vault kv put secret/consul/gossip key="$(consul keygen)"
```

Next, we will need to create a policy that allows read access to this secret:

```shell-session
# gossip-policy.hcl
path "secret/data/consul/gossip" {
  capabilities = ["read"]
}
```

```shell-session

> vault policy write gossip-policy @gossip-policy.hcl

Reviewer: ```suggestion
vault policy write gossip-policy gossip-policy.hcl
```

```

> Next, we will create Kubernetes auth roles for the Consul server and client:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prior to creating auth roles for the Consul server and client, ensure that the Vault Kubernetes auth method is enabled. 

```shell-session
vault auth enable kubernetes
```

Next, we will create Kubernetes auth roles for the Consul server and client:
```
